Implement #5748 (#5778)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/03-routing.md

// @filename: $types.d.ts
export type RequestHandler = import('@sveltejs/kit').RequestHandler<{}>;

// @filename: index.js
// ---cut---
import { error } from '@sveltejs/kit';

/** @type {import('./$types').RequestHandler} */
export function GET({ url }) {
	const min = Number(url.searchParams.get('min') ?? '0');
	const max = Number(url.searchParams.get('max') ?? '1');

	const d = max - min;

	if (isNaN(d) || d < 0) {
		throw error(400, 'min and max must be numbers, and min must be less than max');
	}

	const random = min + Math.random() * d;

	return new Response(String(random));
}
```

The first argument to `Response` can be a [`ReadableStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream), making it possible to stream large amounts of data or create server-sent events (unless deploying to platforms that buffer responses, like AWS Lambda).

### $types

Throughout the examples above, we've been importing types from a `$types.d.ts` file. This is a file SvelteKit creates for you in a hidden directory if you're using TypeScript (or JavaScript with JSDoc type annotations) to give you type safety when working with your root files.

> For example, annotating `export let data` with `PageLoad` or `LayoutLoad` tells TypeScript that the type of `data` is whatever was returned from `load`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, annotating `export let data` with `PageData` tells TypeScript that the type of `data` is whatever was returned from `load`:
```

Author: ```suggestion
For example, annotating `export let data` with `PageData` (or `LayoutData`, for a `+layout.svelte` file) tells TypeScript that the type of `data` is whatever was returned from `load`:
```

#### POST

In the case of `POST`, there are basically three possible outcomes — success, failure due to input validation errors, and failure due to something unexpected that requires showing an error page.

In the success case, nothing or a redirect is returned. The latter is often used to redirect to the newly created resource. We can achieve this by returning a `location` property that indicates where the created resource lives:

```js
/// file: src/routes/todos/+page.server.js

/** @type {import('./$types').POST} */
export function POST({ request }) {
  const data = await request.formData();
  await create_todo(data);
  const id = await create_todo(data);

  return {
    location: `/todos/${id}`
  };
}
```

After the `POST` handler returns, the `GET` handler (on the current site or the one that is redirected to) is invoked again, being able to provide the new data.

Unexpected failures are easy to deal with, as it's the same as `GET` — `throw error(status)`.

> Validation errors cause the page to be re-rendered with the errors, so they can be used for UI that guides the user towards valid inputs:

Reviewer 2: In the case of an invalid post request, how does one show the invalid value in the input? E.g., I'd want to do this...

```
<p>Error: Must include the word "potato".</p>
<input name="description" value="tomato" />
```
According to my reading of this section and the [migration guide discussion](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/discussions/5774#:~:text=POST%2C%20PUT%20and%20PATCH%20handlers%20should%20not%20return%20data.%20They%20can%20return%20an%20errors%20object%20of%20validation%20errors), the POST handler is only allowed to return a map of validation errors, not the invalid data itself. The data is populated from GET, not passed back from what the POST handler originally read. So, it appears the user could be shown the error, but not the invalid value that they submitted.

Author: The plan is basically to take a different tack altogether: https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/discussions/5875

Until then you can have an `errors` prop on your page, and it will be filled in with the validation errors:

```svelte
<script>
  export let data;
  export let errors;
</script>
```

Author: oh shit, wait, that doesn't answer your question at all. err...

this is nasty, but you could put the values on `event.locals` and read them in the `GET`
